# 4th of May.

## Notes on Tatiana's notes
Question as to how we interact between the Engine and
the Parser. We agree on the data type (raw bytes/string)
but there is some discrepency as to how the workflow will
operate.

More or less, we have two approaches that make a small
distinction as to who owns the (complete) buffer.

Tatiana keeps the Buffer;
    + Everything about the client in one place
    - Bigger chance of buffer overflow?
    + If parser crashes we can easily start again
    - Parser needs to maintain buffer_pos while it 
    does not contain the buffer itself. Strange delegation?

Zach keeps the buffer:
    + Memory efficient.
        When a state has been processed we no longer need
        the relevant string. (for example, as soon as the 
        method is processed, we no longer need the raw bytes
        that contain this informatin since it is now in the
        httpRequest structure)
    + Clear Delegation of tasks.
        Zachar: Parsing and Request
        Tatiana: I/O and server engine
    - More difficult to understand?

---
## Notes on the parser.

### Finite Internal State Machine.
    Finite State: Meaning it has a finite amount of states that the machine/parser can have. Examples could be; INITIALIZE/PARSING/COMPLETE.
    Or perhaps more defined: STARTLINE/HEADER/BODY/COMPLETE/ERROR

    Internal: Meaning the Machine keeps track of its State itself. 

### The States of the machine.
Let's give an example of a HttpRequest from a client:
```
POST /upload/info.txt HTTP/1.1\r\n
Host: localhost:8080\r\n
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0\r\n
Content-Type: text/plain\r\n
Content-Length: 15\r\n
Connection: keep-alive\r\n
\r\n
Hello, Webserv!
```

1. StartLine
```POST /upload/info.txt HTTP/1.1\r\n```
2. Headers
```
Host: localhost:8080\r\n
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0\r\n
Content-Type: text/plain\r\n
Content-Length: 15\r\n
Connection: keep-alive\r\n
```
3. BodyByContentLength
Note how the body needs not end with a `carriage line feed`. It simply checks whether
the received data matches the `Content-Length` header. If not, we know we still need more.
```
Hello, Webserv!
```

So In total we can separate the states as such:
STARTLINE/HEADERS/BODY/COMPLETE/ERROR

---

### WorkFlow of Parser

Initialation/Constructor;
    Empty Buffer (? what if there is still information from another request in here?)
    State -> STARTLINE
    
State == Request line.
    End of State Signifier (EoSS) == \r\n (Carriage Line feed)
    Check if we're not exceeding maximum data size.
    Once we have the full startline we can partially parse it into the relevant Response Sections.
        Method.
        URI.
        HTTP Version.
State == Headers.
    End of State Signifier (EoSS) == \r\n\r\n (double carriage line feed)
    Every single CLF signifies a new header section. -> Split by ` : `. Otherwise Syntax Error (Bad Request)
    std::map -> lhs and rhs. lhs sets the "header", rhs sets the "value" of corresponding header.

State == BODY
    End of State Signifier: NONE. Check by Content-Length. (if NA or 0, we simply don't handle this state and skip it)

State == Complete
    Signifies we have a complete request and can switch to the Response Generator.

State == Error
    Something went wrong. Either in the parser or in the request. From what I can see it will most likely be bad/invalid requests and an error from the client's side.

### NOTE ON THE [BODY] STATE

We will most definitely have to integrate a specific version of Transfer-Encoding; namely `chunked`.

Basically what this means is that instead of the Client calculating the total size of the message (which requires the computer to read the entire file prior to sending) it sends small little packages called "chunks".

This is primarily required for CGI as stated by the subject.

** THIS WILL BE TEMPORARILY IGNORED FOR THE MINIMUM VIABLE PRODUCT **

We can do without for now, simply rendering `transfer-encoding : chunked` unapplicable for now. It's advantage is that we can start with response generation without having to implement CGI right away.
